.TH USWITCH "1" "31 July 2008" "GINI" "GINI Components"

.SH NAME
uswitch \- switch emulator for GINI micro internets.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uswitch [\fI OPTION\fR]... -s \fISOCKET_FILE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
A software-level switch that interacts with the UMLs and other GINI
components to build a GINI micro Internet.  
The switch can connect to other GINI components in the same
local machine or another switch in a remote machine. The connection
between the GINI components and the switch is handled through the socket
interface. The socket interface in the switch is implemented as UNIX
file sockets. The connection to remote switches are made through UDP
Internet sockets.
The only required option
is \fB\-s\fR \fISOCKET_FILE\fR, which specifies the file to use as the 
socket interface.

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-maxage\fR \fISECONDS\fR
set the maximum age (in seconds) an unused MAC address can live in the 
switch before it is removed
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
raise the debug level by one: specifying this option twice will give
maximum verbosity
.TP
\fB\-\-hub\fR
run the switch in hub mode
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display this help and exit
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-logfile \fILOG_FILE\fR
set the logfile to \fILOG_FILE\fR
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-pidfile\fR \fIPID_FILE\fR
set the pidfile to \fIPID_FILE\fR
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sockfile\fR \fISOCKET_FILE\fR
set the socket file to \fISOCKET_FILE\fR

.SH AUTHORS
This code is a heavily modified version of the code obtained from 
.I http://user-mode-linux.sourceforge.net/ 
in 2003, rewritten by Alexis Malozemoff.
This man page was originally written by Balasubramaneyam Maniymaran,
rewritten by Alexis Malozemoff.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <maheswar@cs.mcgill.ca>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gloader (1),
.BR grouter (1)

